content/talks/renaissance-of-terminal-user-interfaces-with-rust.md, before:

+++
title = "Renaissance of Terminal User Interfaces with Rust"
template = "talk.html"
[extra]
  date = "Oct. 11th, Friday"
  time = "14:15 - 14:45"
  speakers = ["orhun-parmaksiz"]
  description = "<p>For every programmer the terminal is very important when it comes to productivity and efficiency. Using text-based user interfaces in the terminal is one of the ways of truly taking advantage of this. And what’s better than a highly performant systems programming language such as Rust for building TUIs</p>?<p>This talk aims to show how the TX (terminal experience) can be improved with the TUI tools written in Rust and gives a brief introduction to how to build TUIs using the Ratatui library.</p><p>The following questions will be answered:</p><ul><li>What is a terminal user interface (TUI) and why is it used?</li><li>How to build TUIs in Rust?</li><li>What can we build with TUIs? (example tools and workflows)</li><li>What is the future of TUIs? (the terminal is the future!)</li><p>Additionally:</p><ul><li>Why shouldn’t we build every app with electron? (i.e. what are the problems with the GUI applications?)</li><li>How common are TUIs? (statistics and TUI alternatives to GUIs)</li><li>How powerful is Rust when it comes to building TUIs?</li></ul>"
  ogimage = "/images/talks/og-images/renaissance-of-terminal-user-interfaces-with-rust.png"
+++

Commit message:

Edit Orhun Parmaksız Talk Desc
Orhun requested an edit to his profile and talk description via Papercall and email as could be seen here:

1. Simplification to a shorter version of his talk description
2. New twitter name/handle
3. Adding a photo to his profile

Thank you

content/talks/renaissance-of-terminal-user-interfaces-with-rust.md, after:

+++
title = "Renaissance of Terminal User Interfaces with Rust"
template = "talk.html"
[extra]
  date = "Oct. 11th, Friday"
  time = "14:15 - 14:45"
  speakers = ["orhun-parmaksiz"]
  description = "<p>The terminal is essential for every programmer when it comes to productivity and efficiency. Leveraging text-based user interfaces (TUIs) in the terminal is a powerful way to take full advantage of this environment. And what could be better than using a highly performant systems programming language like Rust to build TUIs?</p><p>This talk aims to demonstrate how the terminal experience (TX) can be enhanced with TUIs and provides an introduction to building them using Rust with the Ratatui library.</p><p>The following points will be addressed:</p><ul><li>What is a terminal user interface (TUI) and why is it used?</li><li>What is Ratatui and how does it work?</li><li>What are the main concepts and main design patterns used in Ratatui?</li><li>What does the future hold for TUIs in Rust?</li></ul>"
  ogimage = "/images/talks/og-images/renaissance-of-terminal-user-interfaces-with-rust.png"
+++
