content/talks/the-impact-of-memory-allocators-on-performance-a-deep-dive.md, before:

+++
title = "The Impact of Memory Allocators on Performance: A Deep Dive"
template = "talk.html"
[extra]
  date = "Oct. 10th, Thursday"
  time = "15:00 - 15:30"
  speakers = ["arthur-pastel"]
  description = "<p>This talk will explore the world of memory allocation and its impact on application performance. Memory allocators are an often overlooked topic but are the backbone of most applications’ performance.</p><p>After covering the fundamentals of heap memory allocation, we will build a simple allocator to illustrate the basic concepts. We’ll then tackle common challenges in memory allocation, such as fragmentation and memory overhead.</p><p>We will then explore multiple scenarios from toy examples to real-world applications. Contributing to accurately measure how effectively allocation challenges are managed. This will be followed by analyzing popular memory allocators, exploring their strategies and performance in addressing these issues.</p><p>By the end of the talk, attendees will have a deeper understanding of how memory allocators work and how to choose the right one, depending on their applications.e a deeper understanding of how memory allocators work and how to choose the right one, depending on their applications.</p>"
+++

Commit message:

add og-images to talk pages

content/talks/the-impact-of-memory-allocators-on-performance-a-deep-dive.md, after:

+++
title = "The Impact of Memory Allocators on Performance: A Deep Dive"
template = "talk.html"
[extra]
  date = "Oct. 10th, Thursday"
  time = "15:00 - 15:30"
  speakers = ["arthur-pastel"]
  description = "<p>This talk will explore the world of memory allocation and its impact on application performance. Memory allocators are an often overlooked topic but are the backbone of most applications’ performance.</p><p>After covering the fundamentals of heap memory allocation, we will build a simple allocator to illustrate the basic concepts. We’ll then tackle common challenges in memory allocation, such as fragmentation and memory overhead.</p><p>We will then explore multiple scenarios from toy examples to real-world applications. Contributing to accurately measure how effectively allocation challenges are managed. This will be followed by analyzing popular memory allocators, exploring their strategies and performance in addressing these issues.</p><p>By the end of the talk, attendees will have a deeper understanding of how memory allocators work and how to choose the right one, depending on their applications.e a deeper understanding of how memory allocators work and how to choose the right one, depending on their applications.</p>"
  ogimage = "/images/talks/og-images/the-impact-of-memory-allocators-on-performance-a-deep-dive.png"
+++
