content/workshops/jetbrains-rustrover.md, before:

+++
title = "JetBrains / RustRover workshop"
template = "workshop.html"
[extra]
  sponsor = "JetBrains"
  sponsor_bio = ""
  sponsor_cta = ""
  sponsor_url = "https://www.jetbrains.com/"
  venue = "main"
  day = "October 9, 2025, Paris and online"
  time = "11:00–15:45"
  mentors = [
    { name = "Vitaly Bragilevsky", avatar = "vitaly-bragilevsky.webp", avatar_alt = "Vitaly Bragilevsky",  bio = "Vitaly Bragilevsky is a Developer Advocate at JetBrains and a passionate fan of Rust and other programming languages – especially those with strong static type systems. He has spent most of his career teaching programming languages, computer science, and software development to students, and now continues this work with professional developers at industry conferences and beyond.", github = "bravit" }
  ]
  abstract = "This workshop is divided into four completely independent sessions, and you’re welcome to join or leave at any time. Please note that Session 3 is a hands-on session with exercises on advanced Rust type system features – you’ll get the most out of it if you bring your laptop."
  ogimage = "/images/workshops/og-images/og-image-jetbrains-rustrover.png"
  heroimage = "/images/workshops/hero-jetbrains-rustrover.webp"
  heroimage_alt = ""
+++

<div class="">
  <h2 class="mb-7">Syllabus</h2>
  <ol class="syllabus">
    <li class="mb-7 border">
      <h4>Session 1. RustRover Demo</h4>
      <div>
        <strong>Time: 11:00–11:30</strong>
        <p>In this session, we’ll explore the key features of RustRover, JetBrains’ dedicated Rust IDE. We’ll cover its support for writing code (including context-aware completion and generation, on-the-fly analysis with quick fixes, smart refactorings, live templates, and more), dependency management (enhanced Cargo.toml editing, unused dependency detection, Cargo features support, etc.), debugging, AI-assisted development, web and database development, VCS integration, teamwork, and beyond.</p>
      </div>
    </li>
    <li class="mb-7 border">
      <h4>Session 2. Debugging Rust Code in RustRover</h4>
      <div>
        <strong>Time: 11:45–12:15</strong>
        <p>Let’s dive into the RustRover debugger. We’ll begin with a general overview of native code debugging – from generating debug information with the compiler to using it while running code under the debugger. Next, we’ll look in detail at different ways to step through code (step-by-step execution, breakpoints, run-to-cursor, and more) and examine the current state of a program. We’ll then briefly touch on remote debugging techniques. Finally, we’ll see how RustRover leverages the gdb and lldb console debuggers, and how you can interact with them directly within a RustRover debugging session.</p>
      </div>
    </li>
    <li class="mb-7 border">
      <h4>Session 3. Hands-On with Advanced Rust Types</h4>
      <div>
        <strong>Time: 14:00–15:00</strong>
        <p>This is a hands-on session on advanced Rust type system features. Bring your laptop, clone the provided repository, and dive into challenging exercises covering advanced enums and pattern matching, trait bounds and generic constraints, associated types (including GATs), higher-ranked trait bounds, and more.</p>
      </div>
    </li>
    <li class="mb-7 border">
      <h4>Session 4. JetBrains Junie: Autonomous AI Agent in RustRover</h4>
      <div>
        <strong>Time: 15:15–15:45</strong>
        <p>Junie is an autonomous AI coding agent available in RustRover. In this session, we’ll explore how it works and how it can boost developer productivity. We’ll also look at the broader role of AI coding agents in modern software development workflows: how they can assist with routine tasks, explore codebases, accelerate prototyping, suggest improvements, and even help teams maintain higher code quality. By understanding Junie’s capabilities in context, you’ll see how AI-powered assistance fits naturally into the daily life of a Rust developer and complements traditional IDE features.</p>
      </div>
    </li>
  </ol>
</p>
</div>

Commit message:

add(jetbrains workshop): company description

content/workshops/jetbrains-rustrover.md, after:

+++
title = "JetBrains / RustRover workshop"
template = "workshop.html"
[extra]
  sponsor = "JetBrains"
  sponsor_bio = "JetBrains is a software company that creates professional development tools trusted by millions worldwide. Their product range includes award-winning tools such as IntelliJ IDEA, PyCharm, ReSharper, and PhpStorm, as well as productivity-enhancing team tools like YouTrack, TeamCity, and Datalore.<br/>In 2023, JetBrains introduced RustRover – a standalone IDE for Rust. Smart code completion, custom-built live inspections, intricate syntax highlighting, full integration with Cargo, and complete testing support to power your development with Rust."
  sponsor_cta = ""
  sponsor_url = "https://www.jetbrains.com/"
  venue = "main"
  day = "October 9, 2025, Paris and online"
  time = "11:00–15:45"
  mentors = [
    { name = "Vitaly Bragilevsky", avatar = "vitaly-bragilevsky.webp", avatar_alt = "Vitaly Bragilevsky",  bio = "Vitaly Bragilevsky is a Developer Advocate at JetBrains and a passionate fan of Rust and other programming languages – especially those with strong static type systems. He has spent most of his career teaching programming languages, computer science, and software development to students, and now continues this work with professional developers at industry conferences and beyond.", github = "bravit" }
  ]
  abstract = "This workshop is divided into four completely independent sessions, and you’re welcome to join or leave at any time. Please note that Session 3 is a hands-on session with exercises on advanced Rust type system features – you’ll get the most out of it if you bring your laptop."
  ogimage = "/images/workshops/og-images/og-image-jetbrains-rustrover.png"
  heroimage = "/images/workshops/hero-jetbrains-rustrover.webp"
  heroimage_alt = ""
+++

<div class="">
  <h2 class="mb-7">Syllabus</h2>
  <ol class="syllabus">
    <li class="mb-7 border">
      <h4>Session 1. RustRover Demo</h4>
      <div>
        <strong>Time: 11:00–11:30</strong>
        <p>In this session, we’ll explore the key features of RustRover, JetBrains’ dedicated Rust IDE. We’ll cover its support for writing code (including context-aware completion and generation, on-the-fly analysis with quick fixes, smart refactorings, live templates, and more), dependency management (enhanced Cargo.toml editing, unused dependency detection, Cargo features support, etc.), debugging, AI-assisted development, web and database development, VCS integration, teamwork, and beyond.</p>
      </div>
    </li>
    <li class="mb-7 border">
      <h4>Session 2. Debugging Rust Code in RustRover</h4>
      <div>
        <strong>Time: 11:45–12:15</strong>
        <p>Let’s dive into the RustRover debugger. We’ll begin with a general overview of native code debugging – from generating debug information with the compiler to using it while running code under the debugger. Next, we’ll look in detail at different ways to step through code (step-by-step execution, breakpoints, run-to-cursor, and more) and examine the current state of a program. We’ll then briefly touch on remote debugging techniques. Finally, we’ll see how RustRover leverages the gdb and lldb console debuggers, and how you can interact with them directly within a RustRover debugging session.</p>
      </div>
    </li>
    <li class="mb-7 border">
      <h4>Session 3. Hands-On with Advanced Rust Types</h4>
      <div>
        <strong>Time: 14:00–15:00</strong>
        <p>This is a hands-on session on advanced Rust type system features. Bring your laptop, clone the provided repository, and dive into challenging exercises covering advanced enums and pattern matching, trait bounds and generic constraints, associated types (including GATs), higher-ranked trait bounds, and more.</p>
      </div>
    </li>
    <li class="mb-7 border">
      <h4>Session 4. JetBrains Junie: Autonomous AI Agent in RustRover</h4>
      <div>
        <strong>Time: 15:15–15:45</strong>
        <p>Junie is an autonomous AI coding agent available in RustRover. In this session, we’ll explore how it works and how it can boost developer productivity. We’ll also look at the broader role of AI coding agents in modern software development workflows: how they can assist with routine tasks, explore codebases, accelerate prototyping, suggest improvements, and even help teams maintain higher code quality. By understanding Junie’s capabilities in context, you’ll see how AI-powered assistance fits naturally into the daily life of a Rust developer and complements traditional IDE features.</p>
      </div>
    </li>
  </ol>
</p>
</div>
